Full rewrite of custom JWT page plus new jwt diagram (#595)
mongodb/docs-app-services: source/authentication/custom-jwt.txt

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3
   :class: singlecol

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-overview:

> The Custom JWT authentication provider allows users to log in with an

Reviewer: Should we spell out JWT on first mention? I see we spell it out a few lines down, but it probably makes more sense to move that up.
```suggestion
The Custom JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication provider allows users to log in with an
```

Author: In this case, since it first appears as the name of one of our Authentication Services, I think not. Generally I agree totally.

authentication credential from a third-party system (external to Atlas
App Services) and use that token to access data and services with App Services. 
The external system must return a signed :jwt-io:`JSON Web
Token (JWT) <introduction>` that contains a unique ID value for the
authenticated user.

Authentication and Authorization
--------------------------------

> The third party JWT provider authenticates users and returns a JWT. App Services 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third-party JWT provider authenticates users and returns a JWT. App Services 
```

uses the JWT to identify your application's users and authorize their requests.

> App Services is agnostic to the authentication methods used by the third party 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App Services is agnostic to the authentication methods used by the third-party 
```

provider. It does not impose any restrictions on the
external authentication system's requirements or authentication methods.
For example, the system could require the user to perform multi-factor
authentication (MFA), provide specific credentials, or otherwise identify
themselves.

.. _json-web-tokens:

How JWT Authentication Works
----------------------------

There are many resources online that dive into the intricacies of JWT 
authentication and the token structure. In the context of App Services, the 
following diagram provides the process flow of a user logging on to a 
Device Sync app. The steps below the diagram provide details.

.. figure:: /images/custom-auth-diagram.png
   :alt: Diagram of Custom JWT authentication architecture.
   :figwidth: 750px

JWT authentication with App Services follows these general steps:

> 1. The user logs on to the third party authentication provider by whatever means 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The user logs on to the third-party authentication provider by whatever means 
```

   the provider requires.

#. If authentication succeeds, the provider returns a JWT to the client app.

#. The client app logs on to the App Services app, providing the JWT credential.

#. App Services parses and decodes the JWT.

#. If you manually provided signing keys in App Services, App Services checks if 
   the signing key in the JWT matches one of the signing keys you specified. If 
   so, the user is authenticated. 

> #. If you configured App Services to use a JWK (also referred to JWKS) URI, App 

Reviewer: I'd like to spell out JWK for the first reference, but this gets awkward fast if we're trying to explain that it can _also_ be JWKS.
```suggestion
#. If you configured App Services to use a JSON Web Key URI (JWK or JWKS URI), App 
```

Reviewer: Looks like we use this in the App Services UI content below:
> JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) URI

Should we just standardize on JWKS?

Reviewer: Oh, but I see the UI uses "JWK". Ugh. What a mess. My afternoon brain doesn't have any elegant solutions.

   Services passes the JWT and public key to the third-party provider's JWK API. 

   #. The provider decodes and verifies the signature and returns a JWK.

   #. App Services checks if the signature in the JWK matches the JWT's 
      signature. If so, the user is authenticated.

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration:
.. _config-custom-jwt:

Configuration
-------------

> You configure Custom JWT authentication from the UI or with the CLI. Choose your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You configure Custom JWT Authentication from the UI or with the CLI. Choose your 
```

           }
         }

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration-verification-method:

Verification Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Verification Method` field determines how App Services will 
validate the JWT returned from the JWT provider. You can configure App Services 
to validate the JWT by using the signing key(s) you provide, or to validate by 

> using a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) URI issued by the third party provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) URI issued by the third-party provider.
```

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration-manually-signing-keys:

Manually Specify Signing Keys
`````````````````````````````
You can configure your app to use one or more signing keys to validate the JWT. 
There are two settings you need to provide:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 30

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - | :guilabel:`Signing Algorithm`
       | *config.signingAlgorithm*

     - The cryptographic method that the external system uses to sign
       the JWT. Custom authentication supports JWTs signed using any of
       the following algorithms:

       - ``HS256``

>        - ``RS256``

Reviewer: Maybe worth adding text that says RS256 is required for JWKS?

Author: Not here, since this section is only about using the manual setting. Added more info in the JWK section, though.

       
   * - | :guilabel:`Signing Key`
       | *secret_config.signingKeys*

     - A list of up to three :ref:`Secrets <app-secret>`

>        that each contain a signing key used by the third party 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       that each contain a signing key used by the third-party 
```

       authentication system to sign :abbr:`JWTs (JSON Web Tokens)`.
       The key can only contain ASCII letters, numbers, 
       underscores, and hyphens, and must be between 32 and 512 characters long. 
       The following is a valid 256-bit signing key:

       .. code-block:: sh
         :copyable: false
 
         231a58b00632c9c4d8ac02b268ca4caf8dd48fd020e3dffa72666523d860988f

       .. note::
 
         If you are uncertain of what value to use, consider visiting a random 
         key generator website, like `keygen.io <https://keygen.io/>`_, and 
         using one of the generated 256-bit values. 

.. tabs-realm-admin-interfaces::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: ui

      1. Set the Signing Algorithm:

         .. figure:: /images/custom-jwt-signing-algorithm.png
             :alt: The Signing Keys configuration inputs

>       2. Create one or more signing keys that is used to sign the JWT. To do 

Reviewer: This sentence is technically grammatically correct, but still awkward. What do you think about cutting some of it to streamline?
```suggestion
      2. Create one or more signing keys to sign the JWT. To do 
```

           ]
         }

.. warning::

  A :guilabel:`Signing Key` is a secret key and anyone with the
  key can issue valid user credentials for your app. Ensure that
  it's never stored in a publicly accessible location, such as a
  git repository, message board, or in your code.

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration-jwk-uri:

Use a JWK URI
`````````````
Some external authentication systems provide a `JSON Web Key Set
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517>`_ (JWKS) that describes the signing
algorithm and signing keys the system uses to sign JWTs. You can use the
JWKS to configure the provider instead of manually specifying the
signing algorithm and keys. The returned JWKS must include a
``kid`` header that specifies the Key ID of a key from the JWKS. The JWKS 
may specify up to three signing keys and must use the ``RS256`` algorithm. 

There is only one value you need to provide:

> - ``JWK URI``, which is the third party URL that hosts a JWK or JWKS service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``JWK URI``, which is the third-party URL that hosts a JWK or JWKS service.
```

       
.. tabs-realm-admin-interfaces::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: ui

>       Specify the URL to the third party JWKS endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Specify the URL to the third-party JWKS endpoint:
```

           "jwkURI": "<JWK or JWKS URL>"
         }
            

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration-metadata-fields:

Metadata Fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`Metadata Fields` are additional data that describe each internal 
App Services user. App Services determines the value of each metadata field from 

> the value of a field included in the third party JWT. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the value of a field included in the third-party JWT. 
```

For example, if you set the ``name`` field of a user, then App Services will use 
that field in the JWT as the user's display name. 

.. note:: 

>   App Services refreshes a user's metadata whenever they log, in and exposes the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  App Services refreshes a user's metadata whenever they log in and exposes the 
```

   JWT token to 2048 characters.** If you exceed this limit, App Services 
   logs an error and the ticket is not processed.

There are three values that you need to specify for each metadata field:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 10 30

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - | :guilabel:`Required`
       | *required*

     - If ``true`` , the metadata field is required for all

>        users associated with the provider, i.e. the JWT

Reviewer: Generally a good idea to avoid Latinisms.
```suggestion
       users associated with the provider. The JWT
```

        ]
      }

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-configuration-audience:

Audience
~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Audience` of a JWT specifies the intended recipient of the token. 
JWTs describe their audience in the ``aud`` claim. App Services
expects ``aud`` to contain the App ID of the App for which the provider
is configured. However, if the external authentication system JWT specifies a 
different ``aud`` value, then you can configure the provider to use that value 
instead.

.. tabs-realm-admin-interfaces::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: ui

      There are two fields you configure:

      .. list-table::
              :header-rows: 1
              :widths: 15 30

              * - Field
                - Description

              * - ``Audience``

>                 - A single value or comma-separated list of values or the audience or 

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be "for"?
```suggestion
                - A single value or comma-separated list of values for the audience or 
```

                    audience from the list.

      .. figure:: /images/custom-jwt-audience-multiple.png
         :alt: The Custom JWT audience configuration input with multiple audiences

   .. tab::
      :tabid: cli

      To set an audience, configure ``config.audience``. There are two fields 
      you configure:

      .. list-table::
              :header-rows: 1
              :widths: 15 30

              * - Field
                - Description

              * - ``audience``
                - An array of strings specifying the audience or audiences expected
                  to be found in a client JWT.

              * - ``requireAnyAudience``
                - Boolean. If ``false``, the JWT must include **all** of the listed
                  audiences. If ``true``, the JWT must only include one or 
                  more of the listed audiences.

      .. code-block:: json

         "config": {
           "audience": [
             "<JWT Audience>",
           ],
           "requireAnyAudience": <boolean>,
         }
         

.. _custom-jwt-authentication-examples:

Using JWT Authentication
------------------------

> You can register new Custom JWT users and log them in using one of the Realm SDKs, 
> or when using an API service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can register new Custom JWT users and log them in using one of the Realm SDKs
or an API service.
```
